[doc][core][compiled graphs] Add doc for overlap (#49923)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/compiled-graph/overlap.rst

            branches = [
                branch.with_type_hint(
                    TorchTensorType(
                        transport="nccl", _static_shape=True, _direct_return=True
                    )
                )
                for branch in branches
            ]
            branches = [receiver.recv_and_matmul.bind(branch) for branch in branches]
            dag = MultiOutputNode(branches)

        compiled_dag = dag.experimental_compile(
            _overlap_gpu_communication=overlap_gpu_communication
        )

        start = time.monotonic()
        for i in range(5):
            ref = compiled_dag.execute(i)
            result = ray.get(ref)
            assert result == [(i, shape, dtype)] * num_senders
        duration = time.monotonic() - start
        print(f"{overlap_gpu_communication=}, {duration=}")

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        for overlap_gpu_communication in [False, True]:
            test(overlap_gpu_communication)

The output of preceding code includes the following two lines:

.. testoutput::

    overlap_gpu_communication=False, duration=1.0670117866247892
    overlap_gpu_communication=True, duration=0.9211348341777921

> The actual performance numbers may vary on different hardware, but enabling ``_overlap_gpu_communication``
> can improve latency by about 14% for this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual performance numbers may vary on different hardware, but enabling ``_overlap_gpu_communication`` improves latency by about 14% for this example.
```

To verify Compiled Graph overlaps the communication and computation operations,

> :ref:`visualize the execution schedule <execution-schedule>` by setting environment variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`visualize the execution schedule <execution-schedule>` by setting the environment variable
```

Overlap Communication and Computation
======================================

> Compiled Graph currently provides experimental support for GPU communication and computation overlap. When turning
> on this feature, it automatically overlaps the GPU communication with computation operations, therefore
> can hide the communication overhead and improve performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiled Graph currently provides experimental support for GPU communication and computation overlap. When you turn this feature on, it automatically overlaps the GPU communication with computation operations, thereby hiding the communication overhead and improving performance.
```

To enable this feature, specify ``_overlap_gpu_communication=True`` when calling ``dag.experimental_compile()``.

> For example, the following code has GPU communication and computation operations that can potentially benefit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code has GPU communication and computation operations that benefit
```
for example unnecessary here, and the code does explicitly benefit

> from overlap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from ``_overlap_gpu_communication``.
```

Reviewer: or
```suggestion
from overlapping.
```

        receiver = TorchTensorWorker.remote()

        shape = (10000, 10000)
        dtype = torch.float16

        with InputNode() as inp:
            branches = [sender.send.bind(shape, dtype, inp) for sender in senders]
            branches = [
                branch.with_type_hint(
                    TorchTensorType(
                        transport="nccl", _static_shape=True, _direct_return=True
                    )
                )
                for branch in branches
            ]
            branches = [receiver.recv_and_matmul.bind(branch) for branch in branches]
            dag = MultiOutputNode(branches)

        compiled_dag = dag.experimental_compile(
            _overlap_gpu_communication=overlap_gpu_communication
        )

        start = time.monotonic()
        for i in range(5):
            ref = compiled_dag.execute(i)
            result = ray.get(ref)
            assert result == [(i, shape, dtype)] * num_senders
        duration = time.monotonic() - start
        print(f"{overlap_gpu_communication=}, {duration=}")

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        for overlap_gpu_communication in [False, True]:
            test(overlap_gpu_communication)

> The output of preceding code includes the following two lines (with somewhat different duration values):

Reviewer: maybe remove the `with somewhat different duration values`. Just state the difference as an explicit improvement in one place either after the output at line 90 or here

Author: done

.. testoutput::

    overlap_gpu_communication=False, duration=1.0670117866247892
    overlap_gpu_communication=True, duration=0.9211348341777921

This indicates a 14% performance improvement when enabling ``_overlap_gpu_communication``.

To verify Compiled Graph overlaps the communication and computation operations,
`visualize the execution schedule <execution-schedule>` by setting environment variable
``RAY_CGRAPH_VISUALIZE_SCHEDULE=1``.

.. image:: ../../images/compiled_graph_schedule_overlap.png
    :alt: Execution Schedule with GPU Communication Overlap Enabled
    :align: center

> Red nodes denote the operations that have different execution order in the optimized schedule
> compared to the original order, due to enabling overlap of communication and computation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Red nodes denote the operations with different execution orders in the optimized schedule
compared to the original order, due to ``_overlap_gpu_communication``.
```

> Overlap Communication and Computation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Overlap communication and computation
```

        receiver = TorchTensorWorker.remote()

        shape = (10000, 10000)
        dtype = torch.float16

        with InputNode() as inp:
            branches = [sender.send.bind(shape, dtype, inp) for sender in senders]
            branches = [
                branch.with_type_hint(
                    TorchTensorType(
                        transport="nccl", _static_shape=True, _direct_return=True
                    )
                )
                for branch in branches
            ]
            branches = [receiver.recv_and_matmul.bind(branch) for branch in branches]
            dag = MultiOutputNode(branches)

        compiled_dag = dag.experimental_compile(
            _overlap_gpu_communication=overlap_gpu_communication
        )

        start = time.monotonic()
        for i in range(5):
            ref = compiled_dag.execute(i)
            result = ray.get(ref)
            assert result == [(i, shape, dtype)] * num_senders
        duration = time.monotonic() - start
        print(f"{overlap_gpu_communication=}, {duration=}")

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        for overlap_gpu_communication in [False, True]:
            test(overlap_gpu_communication)

> The output of preceding code includes the following two lines:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output of the preceding code includes the following two lines:
```

.. testoutput::

    overlap_gpu_communication=False, duration=1.0670117866247892
    overlap_gpu_communication=True, duration=0.9211348341777921

The actual performance numbers may vary on different hardware, but enabling ``_overlap_gpu_communication`` improves latency by about 14% for this example.

> To verify Compiled Graph overlaps the communication and computation operations,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To verify that Compiled Graph overlaps the communication and computation operations,
```
